Hey hey hey! Should be a fun video, we're
going to be dealing with helicopters and
3D sounds. So, we'll talk a bit about 3D sounds, attach and tweak our first 3D sounds,
and arrange a simple helicopter landing.
All nice and easy, so go over into Unity. If you go and download your Start Pack,
from the beginning of the section, you
will find in there this Helicopter Asset.
Now, I've got permission from, Dwayne, the guy who made it, to include this in the course.
You can't use it for commercial purposes,
but you can use it for fun, as part of
the course. So, he has provided it to us with
a simple animation. I have provided you
with a helicopter sound, as well,
repeating sound there. We also have
a helicopter model and you can see that it's all nicely tagged up, and inside that
model you've, got it split up into back
rotor, top rotor, etc.
He's got a little fly animation,
which you can preview there. So, pretty
cool hey! So, this is using somebody else's assets. You can see the materials,
all the things on the helicopter, wrapped
around a sphere like that. So, it's a Call
Asset. OK, so how are we going to get this into the scene. Well, we have a helicopter
placeholder right there. What I'm going to do is, I'm just going to copy the component.
I'm going to put my helicopter prefab into the scene, like that, which
is called Helicopter 1, because it comes with a load of stuff. I don't want to have to rebuild
that. I'm going to paste the component values on there. Now, what happened to the
scale? So, undo and have a look at his
default scale. It's 0.01, 0.01, 0.01.
OK, so I'm going to paste my values over
the top which, will put the helicopter
where I wanted it, but you need to be
careful about the scale. There it is. And then, what
else do we need from our placeholder
helicopter? Well, the script, so let's add the
component to our helicopter script, who is going to listen for... Well, the helicopter script is
actually going to do all the behavior,
but for the moment it's going to
just listen, for the key press. And it's going to need a cool sound which, we'll make
in a moment. Then, we can do away with our old helicopter, and basically, after all that
messing around, we have a helicopter, but
that actually, when you look at it, is in the same place,
under the water. Let's bring it up above
the water, so there it is. It's in the
same place, just sitting there, chilling
out. It can be floating in mid-air,
because the player can't see it. It's
fine to be there, as long as it's out of
sight, and it has a mesh renderer on it, an
animator on it, and it's looking fine.
So, if we play the game and go into the
Scene View, and look at the helicopter
there, it's just sitting there, right now.
It doesn't have any animation on it.
That's fine. We'll be listening for that key press, so
we need a helicopter call sound, let's do
that first. So, I'm going to go to Audacity,
which you can get for Mac or PC for free.
Now, if you're going to download Audacity, be
careful where you get it from, for me. If I put Audacity into Google, let's not
get it from Source Forge,
because I saw Source Forge kind of suck. I think you're probably best off getting it from www.audacityteam.org.
Yep, this is the right place!
OK, so go grab it from there, if you need
something like Audacity. It doesn't
matter how you record the sound, make your own sound, go ahead and do that, and I think that's
going to be fun! So, I'm going to record mine now. Rescue Helicopter 01 Inbound ETA five minutes.
How does that sound, apart from very silly? So, I'm just going to cut it. [Makes Funny Noises] Cut!
You know, I really don't know how to use
Audacity.
[Makes More Funny Noises] Somewhere here, Remove Audio, Cut. How's that? That should do it. [Recording Plays in Background]
That sounds completely ridiculous, which is just what we want.
So, let's just cut that. Fantastic! Now, I'm going to Save As or Export to an .ogg file, because, by the way, if
you use an mp3 file, and you put
that in a commercial game, you
are supposed to pay for an mp3 license.
Woohoo scary! So, let's not do that, let's
use an .ogg file. So, I'm going to go directly into my repos. Actually, you may
not realize that you can put things
directly into the relevant folder, so if I
go to Zombie Runner, and then, I go to Assets, and then, I go to Start Pack, and then, I go to
Helicopter. And I can just say cool sound, like that, and then, save it as an .ogg
file. And when I get over into Unity, then
the call sound will be right there. Cool! So, now
we can go give this script to the call
sound, and let's see if this works, at least.
Hit play, helicopter called. Now, it didn't work, because our script is incomplete, so your
job now, is a challenge for you. What I
want you to do is, add and tune your helicopter's sound.
Make your own helicopter sound, make
it play. Remember, you're going to have to put
an AudioSource on the helicopter, and then,
try playing around with the 3D sound
settings and see if you can get it
sensible. Now, you might want to move the
helicopter into the scene, for this
exercise, and see if you can get it
sensible. If you can't, I'm going to show
you, in the solution to the challenge, how to
make this sensible as you approach the
helicopter, so move it into the scene,
put the sound on it, get it triggering, when
you put H, and see if you can make it all work nicely.
See you in a second. Cool! Cool! Cool! Cool! So, welcome back! I'm going to firstly, put my helicopter in the scene, as I said.
As I said, I'm just going to put it on the other side of the wall, just for testing purposes. That will do, it's a semi-
sensible position. It's even nearly on the
ground. There you go, it pretty much is on the ground now.
Fine, I think I'm going to put the
animation on it, because
it's asking for an animation controller there and we've got one. There you go, it's called fly, so why not
just do that. If I then go look at the helicopter in the Scene View, you see it looks much
better. Fine! And then, we need to put a
sound source on it. Don't worry, because
at the moment, It's got nothing no reason to make a sound, so it's called an audio
source. There it is Audio Source. OK, so now that it has an Audio Source, what we need to do is push
the script into this Audio Source... Not the
script, the clip into this Audio
Clip here by script. OK, we don't need to worry about sending it out to mixes or anything else.
We don't want to Play On Awake, we do want it 3D sound, we want the Spatial Blend to
be 100% 3D. You'll see that, in a minute, one problem you may have had
when you tried this is, if it was 100% 2D, then the sound will just be
the same volume, regardless of distance.
So, you want a Spatial Blend of 100% 3D.
So, the sound volume is going to depend entirely on the distance from it.
OK. So, that's the only thing you need to
change. Now, we need to go back to the
Helicopter Script don't we, and we need to play with that, so that it actually sets
and plays this audio clip. So, we're going
need a private AudioSource audioSource;
OK. [Laughs] Now, let's go find that AudioSource. Now, it's just GetComponent, because it's already on this thing.
So, we found the AudioSource, and then, where it says helicopter called, yeah we can
still send that to the log. Now, if we're going to leave it in, I'm going to Debug.Log,
it's just a little bit more robust. And then, I'm going to say audioSource.clip = callSound;
OK, and then, we need to go audioSource.Play ();
That's a method. Cool! Let's see what happens.
OK, helicopter call. Now, did it make a sound? We don't know. So, how are you going to test it? Well, you can go and
get closer to the helicopter, or you could set its Spatial Blend to 100% 2D, for a minute,
and then try. Ah, you see that's OK
isn't it. Because what's happening there
is the sound is happening everywhere
in the scene, because it's 100% 2D.
Alright, so that's fine. So, how are we going to tune the sound, so that we can hear
it? And how about the actual wacky wacky sound of the helicopter blades?
Well, we've actually got two different AudioSources we want to hear. The AudioSource
for the helicopter's radio sound could be on the helicopter, but it is
kind of 2D, because it comes to us through
radio waves and plays in our ears. So, we've
got a couple of different options here,
one of which is to add another AudioSource
to this helicopter and use that second AudioSource for its wacky wacky
sound. I'm going to do that. So, this is
outside of the scope of what we did in
the challenge. So, in the challenge I just
wanted you to make it play and it does
play, and it plays if you leave the Spatial Blend on 2D, which is simulated
coming through the radio. What I also want is a permanent clip on here, which is the
helicopter wacky wacky sound, like that,
and I want it to loop and Play On Awake.
And then, if I play now, watch what happens.
Wherever we are, we can hear that helicopter, even though we're nowhere near it. What we want
to do is set the Spatial Blend to 100% 3D. Now, as I stand here,
I can't hear the helicopter. Now, is that too
quiet? Well maybe, maybe not. Let's look at
the details of this second AudioSource. So, what have we got? We've got
a Minimum Distance of 1. Well, actually
you probably can hear the helicopter
pretty loud from 10 meters, so I'm going to make a Minimum Distance of 10 and a Maximum
Distance of, yeah let's say, 500 meters. So, why can't I hear this at the moment?
Well, it depends how far away I am. Let's
have a look at where the helicopter is
and where the player is. So, I've got to go
along the side of this lake. Let me try
that and see if the helicopter gets
louder. Where's my lake? I can't really see. I'll have
to go into Scene View to see which
direction to go in. I'm not sure.
I should be able to hear it, in one direction. I think my lake is over here, isn't it? Am I getting closer?
Further away? I think I'm getting closer.
You can turn gizmos on in Game View, by the way, if you want to, which can help with
this sort of thing. I'm completely lost, I need to turn to my right. So, that can be a bit of fun.
OK, so basically the bottom line here is
that the helicopter is too quiet. I need to be able to hear
more of the helicopter than I am, from a
distance. So, the things that you can play
with, with regards to the helicopter's sound are the Minimum Distance, which I
say I'm going to have that as 10 meters
let's say, and then, you've got to decide on
the Maximum Distance, maybe 1,000, like that. And then, you can pull
the curve around, if you want to, until it
works. Let's have a listen. I can actually
hear the helicopter now. It's really quiet, so
I've got to work out which direction.
So, I'm just going to cheat here. I'm going to take the helicopter, move it closer to the player.
Ha, now I can see the helicopter, over there just, and as I run towards it, now my footsteps
are far too loud. So, let's fix that. Go to the player, look at the Footstep Audio
Source, on the player, and just turn the
volume down to maybe 25%. OK, let's
carry on. Now, if we inspect the helicopter, while we do this, remember it's got two audio sources on it.
One is when we hit H, and that's a 2D sound, that plays straight into my ears, regardless
of my distance from the helicopter, and
then, we've got this other one, which is much
more complicated. Now, look at the red line here. Watch as I move towards the
helicopter, that red line is decreasing, as
my distance decreases, and listen.
Got another wacky tree there. Now, as we start to get really close listen. Much louder and then, that Minimum
Distance, of 10 meters, has a massive effect on its volume, at a distance. Look at it. If I go here,
Ethan is after me, and I change this Minimum Distance, it gets far too quiet out here.
So, you want a Minimum Distance of 10,
maybe 15 meters. Trust me, I fly
helicopters. When you get within 10 to 15
meters, it's not much different, whether
you're there or there, it's very loud, and
that helps, because of the way it's logarithmic
roll off, it helps keep it at a sensible volume, at a distance. So, I'd suggest a Min
Distance of say 10 Meters or 15 and a Max
Distance of at least 500. I might try a Max
Distance of 1,000, see how that works.
This doesn't make a lot of difference, at this distance. OK fantastic! So, I'm just going to
check my settings have stuck on there. I need to look at the bottom
Audio Source, 10, 500, Logarithmic Role Off, all very cool! So, that's our sound working
for our helicopter. Congratulations if you've got that working!
And if you enjoyed playing with helicopter sounds, then do comment in the
discussions. I'm just going to do a quick
recap for you.
The helicopter script that we have on
here is taking in a cool sound, so that
it can pass it to this second AudioSource. Why do we need two audio sources?
Because, while we hear the wacky wacky of
the helicopter,
we also want to be able to hear the radio.
Now, you could argue that you only need one
AudioSource, because you
won't be able to hear the helicopter until
you've called it. So, you could just use a
single AudioSource and swap the clips
around. I'm just showing you a technique
of using two AudioSources, so that we
can get, for instance, close to the
helicopter, if we wanted to, and then,
call it, which sounds crazy. But depending on how you've set your game up, you may want to
do that, and then, you would be able to
hear the helicopter wacky wacky
sound. And then also, on top of that, be able to hear the sound of the
radio. Let's try it. You can hear the helicopter there. OK, so you don't have to use two AudioSources.
I've chosen to and I just wanted to show you the difference.
The other thing is that the radio one, the
other reason to use two, is that the radio
is a 2D sound, regardless of your
distance, you hear it the same, and the
other one, is a purely 3D sound and you
can make a blend in between them.
OK, so hopefully that's enough about 3D
sounds, for you to get a good idea as to
what's going on. Hopefully that's been fun
for you, and I'll see you in the next video.